Add docs for RTD (#71)
nest-desktop/nest-desktop: docs/user/usage.rst

Usage Guide
===========

This guides provides detailed documentation for the Graphical User Interface (GUI) of NEST Desktop.

.. note::

>   If you want to see quick start in NEST Desktop we prepared a :doc:`video <index>` showing steps how to construct networks and explore activity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If you want to see a quick start guide for NEST Desktop, we have prepared a :doc:`video <index>` showing the steps how to construct networks and explore activity.
```

**Getting Started**

> Once you start NEST Desktop, you see the start page a image of a laptop with NEST logo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you start NEST Desktop, you can see the start page containing an image of a laptop with the NEST logo on its screen.
```

At the bottom it shows a short description of NEST Desktop (left) and some useful links and the current version (right).

.. image:: ../_static/img/screenshots/start-page.png
  :width: 100%

|

.. note::

>   You can reload the page if NEST Desktop is somehow crashed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You can reload the page if NEST Desktop has somehow crashed.
```

|
|

.. _Construction:

Construct neuronal networks
---------------------------

> If you want to construct network, you have to open the network editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to construct a network, you will have to open the network editor.
```

The network editor shows the network graph composing of nodes (shapes) and connections (lines).

.. image:: ../_static/img/screenshots/network-editor.png
  :width: 100%

|

Here, we explain steps to create and connect nodes.

.. topic:: Create nodes

  .. image:: ../_static/img/gif/create-nodes.gif
    :align: left

  |

>   In order to create a new node you click the right mouse button in the network editor, a `pie` panel  with three letters appears to select a element type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In order to create a new node, you can click with the right mouse button in the network editor and a `pie` panel  with three letters appears to select an element type.
```

>   A node is divided in three element types: stimulus (:guilabel:`S`), recording (:guilabel:`R`) devices and neuron (:guilabel:`N`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  A node is divided into three element types: stimulus (:guilabel:`S`), recording (:guilabel:`R`) device and neuron (:guilabel:`N`).
```

  Then it creates a node of the selected element type.

|
|

**Node labels**

Each node graph is labeled to identify the model of the node.

> By default, it creates direct current generator (:guilabel:`dc`) for stimulus, voltmeter (:guilabel:`vm`) for recording devices.
> Neuron are just labeled by :guilabel:`n`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, it creates a direct current generator (:guilabel:`dc`) for a stimulus and a voltmeter (:guilabel:`vm`) for a recording device.
Neurons are just labeled with :guilabel:`n`.
```

You can find the full label of the node model in the network controller.

.. image:: ../_static/img/screenshots/node-shapes.png
  :align: right

**Node colors**

> Nodes and connections contains parameter configurations which are displayed in the controller panel in the side navigation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nodes and connections contain parameter configurations which are displayed in the controller panel in the side navigation.
```

> The color of nodes helps you to associate the network graph with the controller as well as the visualization of the network activity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The color of nodes helps you to associate the network graph with the controller as well as the corresponding visualization of the network activity.
```

The color of lines is defined by the source node.

**Node shapes**

The specific shape defines an element type of a node:

  - **Hexagon:** A stimulus device alias stimulator is an instrument which only produces signals towards target nodes.

>   - **Parallelogram:** A recording device alias recorder is also an instrument which observe states of a recordable node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Parallelogram:** A recording device alias recorder is also an instrument which observes states of a recordable node.
```

>   - **Square/Triangle/Circle:** A neuron node is the core engine of neuronal network model which received inputs from other nodes and produces specific output using intrinsic equation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Square/Triangle/Circle:** A neuron node is the core engine of a neuronal network model which received inputs from other nodes and produces specific output using intrinsic equation.
```

**Neuron shapes**

.. image:: ../_static/img/screenshots/neuron-shapes.png
  :align: right

> The shape of neurons is differently represented by the set of synaptic weight of their connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The shape of neurons is represented differently by the set of synaptic weights of their connections.
```

>   - **Square:** Neurons without connections or mixed (positive and negative) synaptic weights to neurons.
>   - **Triangle:** Neurons with excitatory connections to neurons. All synapse weights are positive.
>   - **Circle:** Neurons with inhibitory connections to neurons. All synapse weights are negative.

Reviewer: Bullet point notation is ok, but we should remove the dot.
```suggestion
  - **Square:** Neurons without connections or mixed (positive and negative) synaptic weights to neurons
  - **Triangle:** Neurons with excitatory connections to neurons (all synapse weights are positive)
  - **Circle:** Neurons with inhibitory connections to neurons (all synapse weights are negative)
```

**Connect nodes**

.. image:: ../_static/img/gif/connect-nodes.gif
  :width: 240px
  :align: left

|

Forming a network of nodes is defined by making connections between and within nodes.

> In order to connect nodes, you click a connector of a node, then move the mouse towards other node and finally click a target node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to connect nodes, you can click on a connector of a node, then move the mouse towards another node and finally click on a target node.
```

It creates a connection between source and target nodes.

.. note::
  By pressing the hotkey ``ALT`` and clicking a node at the same time,
  you enable the connecting mode or continue connecting other nodes.

|
|

**Select model and parameters**

.. image:: ../_static/img/gif/edit-node.gif
  :width: 320px
  :align: right

> You are able to select model of a node in the network controller.
> Then it shows a list of parameters which you want to work on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You are able to select the model of a node in the network controller.
Then it shows a list of parameters which you might want to work on.
```

> Finally, you are able to change values of visible parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, you are able to change the values of visible parameters.
```

|

**Network history**

.. image:: ../_static/img/gif/network-history.gif
  :align: right

> With network changes it makes a snapshot of the network afterwards and push to the network history list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After every network change, an automatic snapshot of the network is created and pushed to the network history list.
```

With this network history you can undo or redo the network changes.

> A load from a network from the history is called `checkout network`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Loading a snapshot from this history is called `checkout network`.
```

|

.. _Simulation:

Simulate neuronal networks
--------------------------

  .. image:: ../_static/img/gif/simulation-button.gif
    :align: right

> You can click :guilabel:`Simulate` button to start the simulation of your network. In the code editor you can have an insight on scripted code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can click on the :guilabel:`Simulate` button to start the simulation of your network. In the code editor you can have an insight into the generated script code (see below for further information).
```

|

.. image:: ../_static/img/screenshots/code-editor.png
  :width: 360px
  :align: right

**Code editor**

NEST Desktop generates textual code from the constructed network.

> The generated code can be applied in any Python interpreter.
> Here, the code semantics of the NEST Simulator is understandable and easily to learn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generated code can be executed in any Python interpreter.
This way, the code semantics of the NEST Simulator is understandable and easily to learn.
```

> The graphical representatives of the nodes deliver arguments to the block of ``nest.Create(*)`` function.
> Next, connections supply specification for the block of ``nest.Connect(*)`` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The graphical representatives of the nodes deliver arguments to the block of the ``nest.Create(*)`` function.
Next, connections supply a specification for the block of the ``nest.Connect(*)`` function.
```

> The function ``nest.Simulate(*)`` triggers simulation of your constructed network.
> All recording nodes fills a block to collect activities containing neuronal properties, e.g. node ids and positions, and activity events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The function ``nest.Simulate(*)`` triggers the simulation of your constructed network.
All recording nodes fill a block to collect activities containing neuronal properties, e.g. node ids and positions, and activity events.
```

|
|
|
|
|

Explore network activity
------------------------

.. image:: ../_static/img/screenshots/activity-explorer.png
  :width: 100%

> Network activity is composed of neuronal properties (positions and ids of neurons) and recorded events from recording devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The network activity is composed of neuronal properties (positions and ids of neurons) and recorded events from recording devices.
```

> Events can be subdivided in two groups: spike events or analog signals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Events can be subdivided in two groups: spike events and analog signals.
```

> Spike events contains times and ids of the senders emitting events to the recording devices which can be considered as collectors (``spike detector``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spike events contain times and ids of the senders emitting events to the recording devices which can be considered as collectors (``spike detector``).
```

> Analog signals contains continuous quantities from the recording devices aka samplers (``voltmeter`` or ``multimeter``) interrogate their targets at given time intervals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Analog signals contain continuous quantities from the recording devices aka samplers (``voltmeter`` or ``multimeter``) which poll/query their targets at given time intervals.
```

Network activity can be explored in a graph or table.

**Activity graph**

.. image:: ../_static/img/screenshots/activity-graph.png
  :width: 360px
  :align: left

> It displays either a chart graph or animated 3D graph for the spatial network forming layers in topology which neurons has geographical positions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It displays either a chart graph or an animated 3D graph for the spatial network forming layers in topology whose neurons have geographical positions.
```

The chart graph contains graphical panels organized in vertical stacks.

> Chart panels is introduced specifically to explore network activity with mouse interaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chart panels are introduced specifically to explore the network activity by mouse interaction.
```

> It visualizes scatter graph for spike activity, line graph for analog signals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It uses a scatter graph to visualize spike activity and a line graph to visualize analog signals.
```

When you add one or more sub-panels for spike activity it shows a histogram graph of spike times or of inter-spike intervals.

|
|

**Activity table**

.. image:: ../_static/img/screenshots/activity-table.png
  :width: 320px
  :align: right

> You can go to the table by clicking on :guilabel:`Activity statistics` button in the right side navigation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can go to the table by clicking on the :guilabel:`Activity statistics` button in the right side navigation.
```

A table shows simple statistics of recorded elements (rows) of a node (population) connected to a recording device.

> In spike events, columns shows spike counts, mean and standard deviation of :math:`ISI` (inter-spike interval) as well as :math:`CV_{ISI}` (Coefficient of variation in inter-spike interval).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In spike events, the columns show the spike counts, mean and standard deviation of :math:`ISI` (inter-spike interval) as well as :math:`CV_{ISI}` (Coefficient of variation in inter-spike interval).
```

> In analog signals (e.g. membrane potentials), columns shows :math:`\mu` (mean) and :math:`\sigma` (standard deviation) of analog signal values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In analog signals (e.g. membrane potentials), the columns show the :math:`\mu` (mean) and :math:`\sigma` (standard deviation) of analog signal values.
```

|
|
|
|
|
|
|

Manage projects
---------------

.. image:: ../_static/img/gif/manage-projects.gif
  :width: 320px
  :align: left

> NEST Desktop has project management helping you to organize your networks and network activity.
> If you want to explore activity of the project, you have to start the simulation (See :ref:`Simulation`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NEST Desktop has a project management helping you to organize your networks and network activity.
If you want to explore the activity of the project, you will have to start the simulation (see :ref:`Simulation`).
```

> Clicking on a :guilabel:`New project` creates a new project where you can construct network from the scratch (See :ref:`Construction`).
> It is useful to give project a proper name that you can recognize your projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clicking on :guilabel:`New project` creates a new project where you can construct a network from the scratch (see :ref:`Construction`).
It is useful to give project a proper name so that you can recognize your projects.
```

|
|

> Below the search field it shows projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below the search field it shows a list of the projects.
```

> Clicking right mouse button on a project item shows a menu with options to reload, duplicate, download or delete it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clicking with the right mouse button on a project item shows a menu with options to reload, duplicate, download or delete the project.
```

> In the projects menu, you find methods to reload, download, upload, delete or reset projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the projects menu, you can find methods to reload, download, upload, delete or reset projects.
```

.. note::

>   Unless you click on save button, the project is not stored in dababase and is lost when you reload the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Unless you click on the save button, the project is not stored in database and is lost when you reload the page!
```

>   An important remark is that it stores only project with neuronal networks in database and activity will be lost after page reload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  An important remark is that it stores only projects with neuronal networks in database, but all activity will be lost after page reload!
```

|

Explore neuron models and devices
---------------------------------

.. image:: ../_static/img/screenshots/explore-models.png
  :width: 100%

|

> The model page provides you detailed documentation of models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The model page provides you detailed documentation of the models.
```
